Both do need to be started about 90 minutes before eating, or it could be done a day ahead, which is my vote. I do the soup and the onions ahead, then do
the 15-minute rice when I get in from work.

THE CUCUMBER SOUP OF SUMMER

Excerpted from
Cooking at Home on Rue Tatin
© 2005 by Susan Herrmann Loomis. Used by permission of William Morrow, an Imprint of HarperCollins Publishers, Inc., New York. All Rights Reserved.

6 servings

I look forward to making this soup each summer with fresh cucumbers, grown by our friend Baptiste Bourdon, a farmer who sells at our local market. There
is something about his firm yet juicy cucumbers that is so alluring and refreshing.

This frothy soup was inspired by Isabelle Devisme, a friend who readily admits she doesn't like to cook. Whenever a French person says that, my ears prick
up, for I find these are the people who come up with the most imaginatively simple recipes. Why? Because they love to eat, they just don't want to spend
time in the kitchen so they develop recipes that fit their needs.

This soup couldn't be simpler. It is a perfect summer tonic, particularly on a scorching day.

Serve with a chilled Sauvignon Blanc.
2 long firm European or Asian cucumbers (about 2 1/4 pounds total), peeled, halved lengthwise, seeds removed, and coarsely chopped
4 small fresh onions, or 6 scallions, white part only
1 cup heavy cream or half-and-half, preferably not ultra-pasteurized
Fine sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
1/4 cup firmly packed flat-leaf parsley leaves
6 fresh mint leaves

1. Place the cucumber in a food processor fit with a steel blade, and process.

2. Add the onion and process until the mixture is a frothy puree. Add the cream and process to blend. Transfer to a bowl and season to taste with salt and
pepper.

3. Mince the parsley and mint together and stir them into the soup. Cover the soup and refrigerate for at least 2 hours before serving, and up to overnight
(8 hours).

Astuce: I refrigerate the cucumbers because they froth better when they are chilled and hold their froth longer. This soup has amazing durability; it is
just as refreshing and delicious the day after it is made. To remove the cucumber seeds, scrape them out gently with a soup spoon.
LYNNE'S TIPS
Heavy cream found in supermarkets has been ultra-pasteurized (heated to approximately 300°F) to eliminate microorganisms that cause it to turn sour and
to give a longer shelf life. It won't whip as well as heavy cream that hasn't been treated with this process, nor does it taste as fine. If you can find
it, use pasteurized cream rather than ultra-pasteurized.
Buy cucumbers with bright green, smooth skin with no shriveled ends or soft spots.

Watermelon Sweet-Basil Rice Salad
© 2005 Lynne Rossetto Kasper. All Rights Reserved.

Serves 4 to 6

I can't leave sweet-savory salads alone at this time of year. Never will the melon and herbs be this good again until next summer.

This recipe turns basic boiled rice into party food with the addition of chile-lime onions, watermelon and fresh basil. Turn it into a light main dish by
folding in 2/3 cup crumbled bleu cheese.

Note: I keep the marinated onions in the refrigerator to use like ketchup or salsa.
Marinated Onions:
1 medium to large onion, thinly sliced
Juice of 1/2 of a large lime
1 jalapeño pepper, seeded and minced (or hot chile powder to taste)
1 to 2 teaspoons sugar
Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
Fast-Cooked Rice:
2 quarts water
1 tablespoon salt
1 cup long grain rice
Final Seasoning:
2 cups cubed, seedless watermelon (or ripe nectarines)
1/4 tightly-packed cup fresh basil leaves, torn
2/3 cup crumbled bleu cheese (optional)

1. In a medium bowl, toss together the onion, lime juice, chile, sugar, and salt and pepper to taste. Refrigerate 1 to 24 hours. Before combining with rice,
taste for sweet/sour/chile balance. Adjust to taste.

2. In a 4-quart saucepan combine water and salt. Bring to a boil, add rice, and adjust heat so water is at a lively bubble. Partially cover and cook 15
minutes. Taste rice. It should be tender with a little bite at its center. If not, cook a few more minutes.

3. Drain rice in a sieve. Because the rice will be served cold, rinse away starch under cold, running water. Toss to remove excess moisture.

4. Shortly before serving, toss rice with onion mixture and fold in watermelon, basil and bleu cheese, if using. Serve at room temperature.

LYNNE'S TIPS
Processing determines if rice is white or brown. White rice has all its outer hull and bran removed. Brown rice has the hull removed, but the bran is left
intact. Brown rice needs 30 to 50 percent more cooking time.
The easiest way to cook rice is to boil it like pasta. With this method you sidestep scorching, incorrect measuring, and guesswork when using different
kinds of rice.
One cup of raw rice will give about three cups cooked, or four to five servings.

Here's my Rookie's Rice Cooking Guide:

For every cup of rice, have two to three quarts of boiling, salted (two tablespoons salt) water in a large saucepan. Drop in the rice and boil, partially
covered, 15 minutes, or until the grains are just tender, but not mushy. Drain in a sieve, tossing to get rid of excess water. You can serve it hot, or
cool it then pack into a covered container and refrigerate up to three days.

To reheat for serving, place the rice in a buttered, shallow baking dish. Cover tightly with foil. Bake in the oven preheated to 350°F for about 10 minutes,
or until rice is hot.

THOUGHTS FROM LYNNE

Most of the world's rice falls into one of three categories: long grain, medium grain, and short grain. Each type cooks differently because it contains
a different kind of starch.

Long grain rice cooks up fluffy, with each grain separate. Medium grain cooks to a creamy consistency, and short grain tends to be soft and sticky.

Basmati: Basmati from India is a luxury long grain rice famous for its incredible fragrance. The longer and more unbroken the grain, the higher the quality.

Before cooking basmati rice, place it in a sieve and wash under cold running water until the water runs clear. Then soak it in cold water 30 minutes and
drain. Boil it as described above. Save money by buying domestic basmati. It's not as fragrant, but it's still good.

Risotto: Risotto doesn't require wine. It does need to be sautéed in a flavorful fat and cooked in an open pot, with the addition of a succession of small
doses of hot, good tasting liquid, and almost constant stirring.

Also essential to risotto's creamy consistency is medium grain rice. If the budget allows, it could be an imported Arborio or Carnaroli. If not, a supermarket
medium grain works fine.
