Linguine with Braised Garlic and Balsamic Vinegar
Linguine con Aglio e Balsamico

From
The Splendid Table: Recipes from Emilia-Romagna, the Heartland of Northern Italian Food
by Lynne Rossetto Kasper (Morrow, 1992). © 1992 by Lynne Rossetto Kasper. All rights reserved.

Serves 6 to 8 as a first course, 4 to 6 as a main dish

This dish is a garlic lover's paradise, taking Italy's popular pasta with garlic and oil into a new realm. Balsamic vinegar spooned over the finished pasta
is the all-important refinement. The dish comes together in almost no time.

Wine Suggestion: A simple but fruity white like Trebbiano del Lazio or Frascati, Sauvignon Blanc from the Trentino region, a Tocai from Friuli or an Arneis
from the Piedmont
List of 7 items
• 3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil or unsalted butter
• 8 large cloves garlic, cut into 1/4-inch dice
• 6 quarts salted water
• 1 pound imported dried linguine
• Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
• 1 to 1-1/2 cups (4 to 6 ounces) freshly grated Italian Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese
• 8 to 10 teaspoons artisan-made balsamic vinegar (if using commercial, blend in 1 teaspoon brown sugar)
list end

Working Ahead: The garlic can be braised up to 8 hours ahead. Set it aside, covered at room temperature. The dish is best finished and eaten right away.

1. In a large heavy skillet, heat the 3 tablespoons oil or butter over medium-low heat. Add the garlic, and lower the heat to the lowest possible setting.
Cook, covered, 5 minutes. Uncover and continue cooking over the lowest possible heat 8 minutes, or until the garlic is barely colored to pale blond and
very tender. Stir it frequently with a wooden spatula. Do not let the garlic turn medium to dark brown, as it will be bitter.

2. Warm a serving bowl and shallow soup dishes in a low oven. As the garlic braises, bring the salted water to a fierce boil, and drop in the pasta. Stir
occasionally. Taste for doneness, making sure the pasta is tender but still firm to the bite, about 10 minutes. Spoon about 3 tablespoons of the cooking
water into the cooked garlic just before draining the pasta in a colander.

3. Remove the garlic from the heat and add the hot drained pasta, tossing with two wooden spatulas. Season with salt and pepper. Now toss with all of the
cheese. Turn into the heated serving bowl. As you serve the pasta, sprinkle each plateful with a teaspoon or so of the vinegar.

