Tarragon Chicken Breasts with Buttered Leeks

Excerpted from
The Herbal Kitchen: Cooking with Fragrance and Flavor.
© 2005 Jerry Traunfeld. Used by permission of William Morrow, an imprint of HarperCollins Publishers, New York, NY. All Rights Reserved.

Tarragon sings out most beautifully when added to a dish with simple flavors. This one, which takes just 20 minutes to prepare, is a perfect example. Chicken
breasts are tucked into a bed of soft buttery leeks to braise and finished with a small handful of fresh anise-flavored leaves.

4 servings
List of 7 items
• 2 cups thinly sliced leeks, white and light green parts only (1 large or 2 small)
• 2 cups chicken broth
• 4 tablespoons unsalted butter
• 4 boneless skinless chicken breasts, about 1 1/2 pounds
• Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
• 2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
• 2 tablespoons coarsely chopped tarragon
list end

Put the leeks in a large skillet with the chicken broth and 2 tablespoons of the butter. Cook them at a gentle boil over medium heat until they are tender
and the broth has boiled down far enough that the leeks are no longer completely submerged. This should take about 8 minutes.

Sprinkle both sides of the chicken breasts with salt and pepper. Place them on top of the simmering leeks, spoon some of the leeks over the chicken, and
cover the pan tightly.

Reduce the heat to low. In 10 minutes test the chicken for doneness. It should feel firm when you press on it, and if you cut a slit into the thickest part
of a breast, there should be no sign of translucence. If the breast pieces are large, it could take as much as 15 minutes, but don't overcook them.

When the chicken is done, lift the pieces from the leeks and put them on a warm platter. Increase the heat under the leeks to high and stir in the lemon
juice, the remaining 2 tablespoons butter, and the tarragon. When the butter melts, taste the sauce and add salt and pepper if you think it needs it. Pour
the leek sauce over the chicken and serve.

Herbal Improvisations: Instead of the tarragon, stir in 2 tablespoons chopped marjoram or 1/2 cup chopped dill or chervil.

LYNNE'S TIPS
List of 4 items
• Leeks belong to the same family as onions and garlic, but their flavor is more "green," with a touch of earthiness. Buy ones with crisp, bright green
leaves and no blemishes on the white bulb end. Those with dry withered leaves or yellow spots have seen better days. Large leeks tend to be tougher than
smaller ones.
• Leeks harbor a surprising amount of dirt and grit in their tightly rolled leaves and need a thorough rinse before using. Trim away the ends of the leaves
and the root on the bulb end, and then slice through the leek end to end. Rinse under cold running water, gently separating the leaves to dislodge any
dirt trapped between them. I dry them and then wrap in paper towels to absorb moisture. Put them in plastic bags in the refrigerator up to four days.
• If you follow just the first step of Jerry's recipe and cook leeks in butter or olive oil until tender, sprinkle them with fresh tarragon and coarse salt,
you have a good side dish. Do half leeks, half carrots, some garlic and finish the dish with a squirt of fresh lemon juice and there's another new side.
• Simmer leeks with potatoes, garlic, thyme and bay leaf in chicken broth and you are close to the French classic vichyssoise soup. Puree, strain, and finish
with cream and you are there.
list end

