Simple Editing Textbook and Objectives

Objective
To perform basic text cutting, copying, and editing that will be used to produce documents, emails, and interface with websites.

Key Concepts
selecting text, copy/paste commands

Skills
•	selecting text by letter, word, line, and paragraph
•	cutting, copying and pasting text within and between documents

Keyboard commands and definitions forSelecting, Cutting, Copying and Pasting

Definitions

Clipboard
A temporary storage place used  for text or other data that you have cut or copied.

Selecting
Also called highlighting, or marking. This is when a section of text is chosen or marked so that only this text will be affected by a later action. For Example, if you  wanted to remove a sentence,  oran  entire paragraph from this document, you need to select it first, then you could cut it  or delete it.

Cut
This command removes the selected text from the document and places it on the clipboard.

Copy
This command makes a copy of the selected text and places that copy on the clipboard. It does not remove the selected text from its current location.

Paste
This command takes the text that was last placed on the clipboard and places it at the location of the cursor.

To select text, hold down the shift key while you use the cursor movement keys that you learned in the previous lessons, and everything that the cursor passes over will be selected.

To unselect all selected text, let go of the shift key and move the cursor in any dirrection.

To unselect part of the text you have selected, keep holding down the shift key, but move the cursor in the opposite direction. 

KeyboardCommands
Delete character to the left of the cursor, delete
Delete character to the right of the cursor, function delete
Select text, shift
Select all, command A
Copy text, command C
Cut text, command X
Paste text, command V
Delete selected text, delete
Undo previous action, command Z
For example, if you accidentally cut or pasted some text and did not mean to do that, pressing command+z would undo that command and put everything back like it was before you performed the last command.
