Couscous Salad with Spinach, Parsley and Spring Onions
Excerpted from
Vegetable Harvest
by Patricia Wells. Copyright 2007 by Patricia Wells. Used with permission of William Morrow, An Imprint of HarperCollins Publishers.

12 servings

During the summer months, we frequently entertain large groups of friends, always dining outdoors. I like to have a broad range of foods, up to a dozen
different vegetables and salads, along with a roast chicken cooked in the bread oven. This quick and easy salad is a favorite: the colors are lively, the
flavors forward, and it's just as good as a leftover the following day.
1 cup medium-grain instant couscous
1 teaspoon fine sea salt
1-1/3 cups hottest possible tap water
1 tablespoon freshly squeezed lemon juice
1 bunch fresh parsley, leaves only (2 cups loosely packed)
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
3 spring onions or 6 scallions, trimmed and cut into very thin rings
5 ounces fresh spinach, rinsed, dried, stems removed, and cut into chiffonade (4 cups loosely packed)
3 tablespoons Creamy Lemon-Chive Dressing (recipe follows)

1. In a large, shallow bowl, combine the couscous and the salt. Toss with a fork to blend. Add the water and fluff until the grains are evenly separated.
Set aside and occasionally fluff and toss the grains until all the liquid has been absorbed, about 3 minutes.

2. In a food processor or a blender, combine the lemon juice, parsley leaves, and olive oil and process until the parsley is finely chopped. Toss the parsley
mixture and the spring onions with the couscous. (This can be prepared up to 8 hours in advance and refrigerated.)

3. At serving time, toss the spinach chiffonade with just enough dressing to evenly coat the greens. Add the dressed spinach to the couscous mixture and
toss gently to blend evenly. Serve.

Creamy Lemon-Chive Dressing

Makes 1 1/4 cups

This light, tangy dressing finds its way into many dishes at my table. I love it with a simple green salad or a medley of heirloom tomatoes.
2 tablespoons freshly squeezed lemon juice
1/2 teaspoon fine sea salt
1 cup light cream
1/3 cup finely minced fresh chives

1. In a small jar, combine the lemon juice and the salt. Cover and shake to dissolve the salt. Add the cream and chives. Shake to blend. Taste for seasoning.
Store, covered and refrigerated, for up to one week. Shake to blend again before serving.

Note: Given the right circumstances, any milk or cream product will curdle (meaning the curd protein coagulates and forms clumps). Acid and heat can cause
curdling, while the greater the fat content of the milk or cream, the more it will resist curdling. I use a light cream with a 12 percent fat content,
much like what is also called half-and-half, and have never had a problem with curdling when adding lemon juice to the cream.

