WHOLE-WHEAT PENNE WITH SWISS CHARD AND WALNUTS

Recipe from
A Collection for the Modern Cooks.

by Susan Spungen (Morrow Cookbooks/An Imprint of Harper Collins Publishers). © 2005 by Susan Spungen. Used with permission of William Morrow Publishers.

Serves 6 as a first course, or 4 as a main course

A colorful bunch of rainbow Swiss chard inspired this recipe. Its stems come in shades of red, white, and golden yellow; the leaves of all are deep green.
You can use regular green or red chard, too. Chard is like getting two vegetables in one: the slightly tart, crunchy stems, and the dark green leaves.
Since they require different cooking times, they have to be separated by stripping the leaves from the stems with a swipe of your hand.
1/2 cup walnut halves
Kosher salt
1 pound whole-wheat penne rigate
1 bunch rainbow, green or red Swiss chard
2 large garlic cloves, thinly sliced
1 tablespoon olive oil
Large pinch of red pepper flakes
1 tablespoon fresh rosemary leaves, coarsely chopped
Freshly ground black pepper
1 1/2 cups ricotta
8 ounces fresh goat cheese
Freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano

1. Preheat the oven to 375°F. Spread the walnuts on a large baking sheet and place in the oven. Shake the pan every few minutes so the nuts toast evenly
and do not burn, for about 10 minutes. Immediately transfer nuts to a bowl and set aside.

2. Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Add 1 tablespoon salt and the pasta. Cook the pasta, using the package directions as a guideline, stirring occasionally,
until al dente. During cooking, remove a piece of pasta and taste for doneness.

3. Wash and dry the chard, and strip the leaves from the stalks. Chop the stalks into 1/2-inch pieces and set aside. Tear the leaves into medium-size pieces.
Set aside.

4. In a large sauté pan, sauté the garlic in the olive oil over medium heat until golden brown, about 3 minutes. Add the red pepper flakes, rosemary, chard
stems, and salt and black pepper to taste. Sauté until the stems are tender, about 3 minutes. Add the leaves, cover the pan, and cook until the leaves
have wilted, about 5 minutes, stirring once or twice. Remove from the heat and set aside until the pasta is done.

5. Drain the pasta, reserving 1 to 2 cups of the pasta water. Add the ricotta and goat cheese to the chard and stir to combine. Add the pasta and stir until
well combined. Season with salt and pepper to taste and add pasta water as needed to moisten the pasta. Transfer to warmed bowls and sprinkle with Parmigiano-Reggiano
and walnuts.

