Kansas City Sweet-and-Smoky Ribs
Adapted from
How to Grill
by Steven Raichlen (Workman Publishing, 2001). Copyright 2001 by Steven Raichlen. Used with permission of the publisher.

Serves 4
2 full racks spareribs (4 to 6 pounds total)
2/3 cup Basic Barbecue Rub (see recipe below)

3 cups wood chips (preferably hickory)
About 3 cups apple juice or water (to completely cover the wood chips)

3 cups Basic Barbecue Sauce (see recipe below), or your favorite homemade or commercial barbecue sauce

1. Place ribs in large shallow container (such as a half sheet pan). Sprinkle 1/2 cup of the rub on both sides of the ribs, patting it onto the meat with
your fingers. Let the ribs stand, covered, in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 hours. While the ribs rest, soak the wood chips for an hour in the apple juice
or water to cover.

2. Set up the grill for indirect grilling (see below) and preheat to medium. If using a charcoal grill, place a large drip pan in the center. If using a
gas grill, place all the wood chips in the smoker box or in a smoker pouch (see below) and preheat to high until you see smoke, then reduce the heat to
medium.

3. When ready to cook, if using charcoal, toss 1 cup of wood chips on the coals. Place the ribs meat side up in the center of the hot grate, away from the
heat. Cover the grill and cook the ribs for 2 to 3 hours. If using a charcoal grill, you'll need to add about 6 fresh coals and 1/2 cup wood chips per
side after each hour.

4. Lightly brush the ribs with 1 cup of the sauce 20 minutes before the ribs are done. When the ribs are fully cooked, the meat will have shrunk back from
the bones about 1/4 inch, and the meat will be tender enough to tear apart with your fingers. But don't overcook; the ribs should have some chew to them.
If the ribs start to dry out, wrap them in aluminum foil for the last hour of cooking.

Transfer the ribs to plates or a platter. Sprinkle the ribs with the remaining rub and lightly brush again with barbecue sauce. Let the ribs rest for a
few minutes, then serve with the remaining barbecue sauce on the side.

Note: This is a wonderful way to prepare baby back ribs. In this case, you'll need to allow 1 to 1 1/2 hours for indirect grilling or 2 to 3 hours for cooking
in a smoker.

Variation: You can also cook the ribs in a smoker. Smoke them for 4 to 5 hours at 225 F

Basic Barbecue Rub

Makes about 1 cup

Ok, this is ground zero—the American barbecue rub. Use it on ribs, pork shoulders, chickens—anything you want to taste like American barbecue. Use 2 to
3 teaspoons per pound of meat. A 4-pound chicken will take 1 1/2 to 2 tablespoons. You'll find hickory-smoked salt available in the spice rack of most
supermarkets. To make a spicier rub, substitute hot paprika for some or all of the sweet paprika.
1/4 cup firmly packed brown sugar
1/4 cup sweet paprika
3 tablespoons black pepper
3 tablespoons coarse salt
1 tablespoon hickory-smoked salt or more coarse salt
2 teaspoons garlic powder
2 teaspoons onion powder
2 teaspoons celery seeds
1 teaspoon cayenne pepper

1. Combine all the ingredients in a mixing bowl and stir to mix. (Actually, your hands work better for mixing than a spoon or whisk does. Use your fingers
to break up any lumps of brown sugar.) Store the rub in an airtight jar away from heat or light; it will keep for at least 6 months.

Basic Barbecue Sauce

Makes about 2 1/2 cups

This is the type of sauce that most people in the United States think of as barbecue sauce: Brown sugar and molasses make it sweet; liquid smoke makes it
smoky—there isn't a Kansas City pit boss around who wouldn't recognize it as local. Slather it on ribs and chicken, spoon it over pork shoulder, and serve
it with anything else you may fancy. You won't be disappointed.
2 cups ketchup
1/4 cup cider vinegar
1/4 cup Worcestershire sauce
1/4 cup firmly packed brown sugar
2 tablespoons molasses
2 tablespoons prepared mustard
1 tablespoon Tabasco sauce
1 tablespoon of your favorite barbecue rub (or the Basic Barbecue Rub above)
2 teaspoons liquid smoke
1/2 teaspoon black pepper

1. Combine all the ingredients in a nonreactive saucepan and bring slowly to a boil over medium-high heat. Reduce the heat to medium and gently simmer the
sauce until dark, thick, and richly flavored, 10 to 15 minutes. Transfer the sauce to clean (or even sterile) jars and store in the refrigerator. It will
keep for several months.

