Lemon-Garlic Roast Salmon on New Potatoes

Serves 4 generously and multiplies easily

Marinade:
1/2 cup good tasting extra-virgin olive oil
5 large cloves garlic
Juice of 1 large lemon
Salt and fresh ground black pepper to taste

The Fish:
4 1-inch thick salmon steaks (wild if possible), or Pacific cod or halibut
2 to 3 medium sized, unpeeled red skin potatoes, boiled to barely tender
2 generous teaspoons pickled capers, rinsed Leaves from 2 to 3 branches parsley

1. About a half hour before cooking, heat oven to 400°F, and in a food processor puree together the olive oil, garlic, lemon juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour over the salmon steaks and refrigerate 20 to 30 minutes.

2. Have a shallow baking dish that can hold the salmon steaks with some room to spare. Peel and thin slice the potatoes, then overlap slices to cover the bottom of the dish.

3. Moisten the potatoes with a little of the marinade and sprinkle with half the capers. Top with the steaks and the rest of the marinade and capers. Bake the steaks 8 to 10 minutes, or until the center of a steak is no longer raw looking (make a small cut to see). If the fish is cold when it goes into the oven, it could take longer to cook. Serve hot sprinkled with the leaves of parsley.

Variations:

Chutney Roast Fish: Make the marinade, but cut down the oil to ¼ cup and add ¼ to ? cup fruit chutney after everything is pureed. Finish the recipe as directed, but do not use the capers.

Coconut-Chile Pan-Roasted Fish: Instead of olive oil, lemon and garlic, marinate and roast the fish in a blend of ½ cup coconut milk, ½ teaspoon fish sauce, a generous tablespoon each minced ginger and garlic, and fresh hot chile to taste. Top the finished dish with fresh lime juice and chopped fresh Thai or sweet basil, or fresh coriander.

LYNNE'S TIPS 

Just about any fish will work in this recipe. The trick is to be sure the potatoes are cooked through before spreading them in the pan. This way, if your fish is thin cut, and therefore fast cooking, the potatoes will be done when it is.

Fish sometimes needs some fiddling and attention while cooking, but once you have the knack you are guaranteed success. The general rule is to cook fish for 10 minutes per inch of thickness, unless the fish is cold when it goes into the oven; then it could take a bit longer. In any case, start testing after about 8 minutes because other variables, like an improperly calibrated oven or temperature, come into play. Do not cook until the fish flakes as many recipes advise. Fish that flakes is overcooked. You want just opaque flesh that is almost firm when gently pressed with your finger. When in doubt, slightly undercook, remove from the heat, cover with foil and let rest for 10 minutes before serving. Residual heat will finish cooking the fish to perfection.


