Sweet Squash for Yom Kippur
Zucca Disfatta

Serves 6 to 8

I can't resist adding this bonus recipe in honor of Yom Kippur. Ferrara's Jewish community dates back to the 13th century.

For centuries the sweet squash found in Ferrara has been scented with sautéed onion and fresh citron to mark the last night of Yom Kippur. Butternut and
a little baked yam come close to the sweet spiciness of Ferrara's squash. Because fresh citron is difficult to find, use lemon and orange zests, with a
pinch of cinnamon as great substitutes.
List of 8 items
• 2-1/2 to 3 pounds butternut squash
• 1 pound yams
• 3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
• 1 large onion, minced
• 3 tablespoons minced fresh citron rind, or 3 tablespoons mixed shredded lemon and orange zests
• 4 cups boiling water
• 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
• Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
list end

Working Ahead: The squash and yams can be prepared up to 24 hours in advance. Cover and refrigerate. Rewarm, covered, in the top of a double boiler over
barely simmering water or in a 350°F oven.

Baking the Squash and Yams: Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Halve the squash vertically and scoop out seeds. Lay a sheet of foil over a baking sheet and lightly
oil the foil. Set squash halves on foil, skin side up. Scrub and prick the yams. Set them on the pan with the squash. Bake both vegetables about 1 hour,
or until each is easily pierced with a knife. Cool for a short time, and then pass their pulp through a food mill into a large saucepan, or mash by hand.
A food processor makes mixture too liquid.

Sautéing the Onions: Heat the olive oil in a medium skillet over medium heat. Take about 15 minutes to slowly sauté onions until they are golden brown.

Finishing and Serving: Add the onions to the squash mixture along with the citron rind or fruit zests, and the cinnamon. Set over medium-low heat, and slowly
cook, stirring often with a wooden spatula to keep from scorching, about 15 minutes, or until most of the vegetables' excess moisture evaporates. The mixture
will be thick and full flavored. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Serve hot.

Cook's Notes: Fresh Citron Rind: Citron has been popular in Mediterranean cuisines for millennium. They share lemon's sourness, but are fragrant with spice
and hints of resin. The fruit's rind is usually candied, but in this recipe it is used fresh. Since fresh citron is scarce in the United States, I have
suggested the substitution of lemon and orange zests. Occasionally you will find fresh citron during the Jewish holiday of Sukkoth.

