Mom's Easy Turkey Broth with White Wine
Copyright 2000 by Lynne Rossetto Kasper

Makes 3 to 4 quarts; freezes for 6 months

At our house, we call this "skeleton soup." It wouldn't be Thanksgiving weekend without the aromas of this broth filling all the corners of the kitchen.
My mother says she started making it back in the Depression. "We couldn't afford to waste anything. Besides, the soup is delicious." You could freeze the
broth to use later in homemade soups. But it's so good on it's own we usually finish it all up by midweek.

Turkey broth is the easiest thing to do: Take a big, tall pot. Add turkey bones, bits of stuffing, skin and seasonings. Add some chopped vegetables, garlic,
tomato and wine. Simmer, then strain and defat the broth. Finally, season it to taste and it's ready to spoon up. If you use organic vegetables, don't
peel them, just rinse and chop.

The Wine Trick: The wine is optional, but it's a good trick to remember. Alcohol releases the widest range of flavors, ones that aren't soluble in water
or fats. Although most of the alcohol cooks off, the tastes it opens up make for a fine broth. Do avoid cooking wines. They taste terrible. Instead, use
an inexpensive, but drinkable Chardonnay, Sauvignon Blanc, Pinot Grigio, or other dry white wine.

The Organic Trick: Use organic ingredients for even better flavor, and probably healthier eating.
List of 7 items
• The bones, meat bits, skin and about 1/2 cup stuffing from a whole turkey, or a couple of chickens, or other meats
• 2 to 4 canned tomatoes
• 2 large onions, coarsely chopped
• 2 large carrots, coarsely chopped
• 2 large stalks of celery with leaves, coarsely chopped
• 12 big cloves of garlic, unpeeled and crushed
• 2 cups dry white wine (optional)
list end

Start the broth about 7 to 14 hours before you want to serve it. Put all the ingredients in a 8- to 12-quart tall stock pot. Add enough cold water to cover
by 3 inches. Bring to a gentle simmer, partially cover, and simmer 7 to 12 hours. The longer it cooks, the richer the taste. Keep the solid ingredients
covered with liquid.

Strain the broth. Cool. Remove the fat by chilling and then lifting it off. If you don't have time, skim any fat from the broth by running a triple thickness
of paper towels over its surface. Discard the toweling and taste the broth for seasoning. Season to taste with salt and pepper. To serve, bring to a simmer
and ladle into mugs or deep bowls. Refrigerate or freeze any leftovers. Season while serving.
