
To practice and become proficient at performing web searches, shopping for items, and locating information on the web

Key Concepts
Navigation Bar, keywords, advanced form controls, search providers

Skills
•	Choosing keywords
•	Choosing the best page navigation commands for a particular situation 
•	Dismissing Notification Bar alerts

	Congratulations! You have now finished learning the basic commands you need to navigate a computer with the keyboard and a screen reader. Now that you have learned the basics, it's time to apply these skills to things you might actually want to do in the real world. 
	The purpose of this unit is for you to learn to use real web sites. As you will see, some are pretty straightforward, and some are more complex. Some assignments will require you to take your time and thoroughly explore somewhere. Remember, if there are websites you intend to visit frequently, it is usually worth taking some time to figure out how that website is laid out and what navigation techniques will be most useful. For example, does a site have headings or tables? If you never expect to see the site again, then it's okay to try commands you think might work to just get what you need and leave.
	Remember also that with most things on the computer, there is more than one way to get where you want. Your goal is to answer questions accurately, and also learn how you can do things most efficiently. Take your time to make sure you really understand what you are doing, and then as you work, ask yourself how you might do things more quickly or with fewer keystrokes.
	Finally, now that you know how to move your cursor reliably, it is important to think about how you present your answers to an assignment. Imagine that you are turning your work in for a college class or to a supervisor. While you do not need long answers, it is important to make sure your answers are clear, in a logical place, and easily understood.
	The goal of all of this is for you to learn how to accomplish tasks well, so please ask questions whenever anything is unclear or if you are wondering how you might do something differently.
	Have fun!