File Management

Definitions

Hard Drive
hard drive or solid state drive
A disk drive that reads and stores data on hard disks. If a computer were a human being, the hard drive or solid state drive would be its long-term memory. Generally, these drives contain more storage space than other kinds of drives.

RAM
Random Access Memory. If a computer were a human being, its RAM would be its short term memory. 

USB Drive / Flash Drive / Jump Drive / Thumb Drive / Pen Drive 
A portable storage device that plugs into a computer's USB port. Flash drives are a common way of storing and transferring data.

SD card or Micro SD card
a type of data storage card that is used by digital cameras, music players, braille notetakers, and other portable devices

File
A block of electronic information, stored together on a computer or external digital storage medium, and given a name. It may be a program, a document, a database, or something else.

Folder
A place where files can be organized and stored.

path
The exact directions to a file on a computer. 

File Explorer
The program used for exploring folders and files. 

File Extension
A notation after the end of a file's name which indicates the type of file it is. The extension follows a period; for example, in the name 2 textbook pages.txt, the extention txt means it is a text file. If it said 2 textbook pages.docx, then it would be a Microsoft Word document.

Common File Extensions
brf - braille file
brl braille file
doc -- Microsoft Word file prior to Word 2007
docx -- Microsoft Word document from Word 2007 or later 
dll -- system file
exe -- program file
gif -- picture
html -- web page
htm -- web page
ini -- system file
jpg -- picture
mht -- single file web page
mp3 -- sound file
rtf --  rich text format (text with formatting, similar to doc file)
txt -- text file
wav -- sound file
xls -- Excel file prior to Excel 2007
xlsx - Excel from Excel 2007 or later

Commands
Open File Explorer: Windows-e
Create new folder: control shift n
Delete file or folder: delete
Rename file or folder: f2
Select multiple files, control space
Open a document: control O
Bring up "Save As" dialog box: F12
