FOCACCIA CHICKEN SANDWICH

Excerpted from
Southern California Cooking from the Cottage: Casual Cuisine from Old La Jolla's Favorite Beachside Bungalow
by Jane and Michael Stern with recipes and headnotes by Laura Wolfe. © 2004 by Jane and Michael Stern. Used by permission of Rutledge Hill Press, a division
of Thomas Nelson, Inc., Nashville, TN.

Makes 4 servings

Here is a sandwich loved by everyone: old and young, men and women, locals and visitors. It is hearty, and we serve it all year long.
1 1/3 cups chopped tomatoes
1/4 cup chopped fresh basil
1/4 teaspoon chopped garlic
2 tablespoons plus 1 tablespoon olive oil
1/4 teaspoon dried oregano
Pinch of black pepper
4 (6-ounce) skinless, boneless chicken breasts
1/2 cup mayonnaise
2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar
4 pieces focaccia
4 slices mozzarella cheese
1 avocado, sliced

Heat the grill to medium-high.

In a medium bowl combine the tomatoes, basil, garlic, 2 tablespoons of the olive oil, oregano, and pepper. Set aside at room temperature for at least 1
hour.

Brush the chicken breasts with the remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil and grill until the juices run clear and the chicken is no longer pink in the center,
turning only once. In a small bowl combine the mayonnaise with the vinegar.

Slice each piece of focaccia in half horizontally. Toast the cut sides lightly. Spread each half with the balsamic mayonnaise. Place the chicken on the
bottom half of the bread and add a slice of cheese. Scoop the tomato mixture on top of the cheese. Top with the slices of avocado and the remaining bread
slices.

LYNNE'S TIPS
Use Haas avocados with the black pebbly skin. They’re more buttery and flavorful than the green, smooth-skinned Fuerte variety. A squeeze of lime on the
avocado is a nice touch. When we serve just straight avocado halves, we sprinkle them with balsamic and salt. So good!
If you can’t find focaccia, try ciabatta rolls or a rustic, artisan-style whole-grain bread.
Cut chicken cooking time by a third and make an easier-to-eat sandwich. Flatten the chicken before cooking by placing it between two pieces of plastic wrap
and pounding with a meat mallet, or the bottom of a small heavy saucepan. Take it down to about 1/2-inch thick.

