Ocho Rios Jerk Pork Chops
Reprinted with permission from The Best Barbecue on Earth: Grilling Across 6 Continents and 25 Countries, with 170 Recipes by Rick Browne, copyright 2008. Published by Ten Speed Press. Photo credit: Rick Browne 2008.

Serves 6

Ocho Rios, along with Boston Beach and Montego Bay, is ground zero for jerk restaurants, shacks, and roadside or beachside stands. These pork chops have a fairly mellow kick by Jamaican standards, but this marinade gives a nice taste of how some of the classic jerk spices meet and mingle. You can also use it on vegetables to make some fine veggie skewers.

3/4 cup water
1/3 cup freshly squeezed lemon juice
1/3 cup chopped onion
1 tablespoon firmly packed brown sugar
1 tablespoon chopped green onion, white and green parts
1 tablespoon olive oil
3/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 teaspoon allspice
3/4 teaspoon cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
3/4 teaspoon dried thyme
1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper
6 (8-ounce) bone-in pork chops, each 2 inches thick 

1. In a food processor or blender, combine the water, lemon juice, onion, sugar, green onion, oil, salt, allspice, cinnamon, pepper, thyme, and cayenne, pureeing until smooth. Set aside 1/2 cup of the mixture, covered in the refrigerator.

2. Place the pork in a resealable plastic bag and pour in the remaining marinade. Cover and refrigerate for at least 12 hours and up to 24.

3. Preheat a charcoal or gas grill to 375 F. Make sure the grill rack is clean and oil it thoroughly with nonstick cooking spray.

4. Remove the pork from the refrigerator. Drain off the marinade and discard it. Transfer the chops to the prepared grill rack over direct heat. Cook, turning and basting frequently with the reserved marinade, until the chops' internal temperature is 160 F (just past medium), 8 to 11 minutes. The meat should be very slightly pink when a sharp knife is inserted near the bone.

5. Let rest, covered, on a warm platter for 5 minutes before serving.


LYNNE'S TIPS

Increase the cayenne pepper to your taste if you like spicier food, or substitute a jalapeno chile that you've seeded and minced. If incendiary heat is your love, go for Jamaica's Scotch Bonnet chile, or the habanero chile.

You could use chops cut to 1-inch thickness here and adjust the cooking time, but don't use a boneless chop. Bone-in lean meats tend to retain more moisture during cooking than boneless cuts. 

Substitute bone-in chicken breasts for the pork. Or try using lime juice in the marinade with large shrimp instead of chops. 


THOUGHTS FROM LYNNE
