Butter-Rubbed Salmon with Blueberry Sauce
Excerpted from
Pure Flavor: 125 Fresh All-American Recipes from the Pacific Northwest
by Kurt Beecher Dammeier with Laura Holmes Haddad. Reprinted by permission of Clarkson Potter/Publishers, an imprint of the Crown Publishing Group, a division
of Random House, Inc., New York). Copyright 2007 by Sugar Mountain Cookbooks LLC.

Serves 6

Smoked, poached, grilled, or sautied, salmon is what's for dinner in the Northwest. Its rich flavor is even better when paired with a butter rub. If you
prepare this dish in advance, bring the salmon to nearly room temperature before you cook it. Using a thicker piece of salmon will give you better cuts.
Otherwise, if the butter rub is too cold, it will flake off the salmon.
1 2-pound salmon fillet, skinned
Lemon-Caper Butter Rub (recipe follows)
Blueberry Sauce (recipe follows)

1. Remove the bones and cut the salmon fillet into 6 pieces at a 45-degree angle along the bias. Try to maintain uniform thickness in the slices, cutting
wider pieces toward the narrower ends of the salmon and thinner pieces toward the thick center of the salmon.

2. Using a basting brush and about half of the butter rub, coat one side of the salmon pieces with the rub. Refrigerate the salmon for 5 minutes, or until
the butter just hardens into a glaze.

3. Heat a large skillet or griddle over medium-high heat.

4. Lay the salmon pieces, butter-rub side down, in the pan and cook until the bottom half of the salmon flesh is opaque, about 3 minutes. Brush the remaining
butter rub over the salmon and flip the pieces. Cook for 1 more minute. The salmon will be nearly opaque throughout but still very moist.

5. Serve hot, topped with blueberry sauce.

Lemon-Caper Butter Rub

Makes 1/3 cup
4 tablespoons (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1 teaspoon capers, drained and mashed
1 teaspoon packed grated lemon zest
1/2 teaspoon garlic powder
1/2 teaspoon Italian herb blend
1 tablespoon diced yellow onion
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper

1. Whisk together the butter, capers, lemon zest, garlic powder, herbs onion, salt, and pepper.

Make Ahead: Prepare the butter rub up to 1 week in advance.

Blueberry Sauce

Pacific Northwesterners love their blueberries. From July to September, cartons of fresh blueberries fill the grocery stores and farmer's markets. The most
prized is the wild Mt. Rainier blueberry, which grows in the foothills of the Cascade Mountains in Washington State, but farms all over Oregon and Washington
grow the bright blue fruit. Use fresh blueberries to make the sauce only if they're in season; otherwise, use frozen wild blueberries.

Makes 1-1/2 cups
2 cups homemade or store-bought low-sodium chicken broth
1/4 medium yellow onion
1/4 sweet apple, such as Fuji
3 to 4 sprigs fresh thyme
2 cups fresh or frozen blueberries
1-1/2 teaspoons freshly squeezed lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces

1. In a small saucepan, bring the chicken stock to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium and add the onion, apple, and thyme. Simmer for 30 minutes, stirring
occasionally, turning over the onion and the apple, until the stock is reduced by half.

2. With a slotted spoon, remove the onion, apple, and thyme from the stock and discard. Add the blueberries and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium-low
and simmer for 20 minutes, or until the liquid is reduced to 3/4 cup.

3. Remove the pan from the heat. Add the lemon juice, salt, and pepper and stir. Add the butter and whisk the sauce until the butter is completely melted,
about 1 minute. Serve hot.

Make Ahead: The sauce will keep for 7 days in the refrigerator and can be gently reheated over low heat before serving.

