SICILIAN SWEET-SOUR SEARED SEAFOOD
Adapted from
The Italian Country Table: Home Cooking from Italy's Farmhouse Kitchens
by Lynne Rossetto Kasper. © 1999 by Lynne Rossetto Kasper. Published by Scribner, New York, NY.

Serves 3 to 4
List of 8 items
• 1 to 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
• 1 pound fresh halibut, cut 1-inch thick (or salmon, tilapia, or jumbo shrimp)
• 1/2 of a medium red onion, cut into thin slivers
• Salt and freshly ground black pepper
• A generous pinch hot red pepper flakes
• 1 teaspoon sugar, divided
• 2 tablespoons red wine vinegar, divided
• 10 fresh mint leaves, coarsely chopped
list end

1. Film the bottom of a 10-inch non-stick skillet with olive oil. Heat over medium-high heat. Have the seafood in 3 or 4 portions. Sauté it with the onion,
seasoning with salt and black pepper and the hot red pepper, to light golden brown on both sides.

2. Reduce the heat to medium low. Cover, and cook about 8 minutes, until the seafood is barely firm when pressed, turning once. Remove it to a heated platter
and keep warm.

3. Set the pan over high heat. Swirl in half the sugar and half the vinegar. Stir about 30 seconds, scraping up browned bits from the bottom of the pan.
When the liquid is syrupy, blend in the rest of the sugar and vinegar and simmer a few seconds. Don't let much of the liquid evaporate. Taste for sweet/tart
balance and depth, adding more sugar or vinegar if needed. Simmer another few seconds if necessary. Add the mint and immediately scrape the sauce from
the pan over the seafood. Serve hot or warm.

LYNNE'S TIPS
List of 3 items
• Use this as a foundation recipe for sautéing any fish cut into 1-inch thick steaks, fillets, or shellfish like jumbo prawns. As long as it is an inch
thick, it will cook more or less the same way.
• Beware of peppermint. It can ruin this dish and many others calling for mint. You want spearmint, which tastes fresh, somewhat sweet and cool, but without
the hard-hitting menthol punch of peppermint.
• Identify spearmint by its dark green leaves and dark green stems. Buy only perky looking bunches, avoiding anything wilted. Store the bunch, stems down,
in a container of water enclosed in a plastic bag and refrigerated. Don't wash it until you're ready to use it. Spearmint will stay fresh a week or so
if you change the water each day.
list end

THOUGHTS FROM LYNNE

California's Monterey Bay Aquarium is committed to supporting sustainable fisheries, those who operations are managed in a way that supports a healthy marine
environment and sustains seafood supplies for the future.

The Aquarium's Seafood Watch program provides frequently updated regional and national guides for consumers, listing the best choices and alternatives for
what to buy at the market, as well as species to avoid because of endangerment or contamination.

For more information visit the Monterey Bay Aquarium's website at
www.mbayaq.org.

