Sally's Summer Zucchini Pasta
From The Splendid Table's How to Eat Supper: Recipes, Stories, and Opinions from Public Radio's Award-Winning Food Show (Clarkson Potter, 2008). Copyright 2008 by Lynne Rossetto Kasper and Sally Swift.

10 minutes prep time; 10 minutes stove time.
Serves 4 as a main dish.
The pasta could be served hot, or at room temperature.

Every single year for as long as I have known Sally she has planted zucchini. She is typically a very sensible person, but somehow she is unable to remember in May exactly how many zucchini will appear in July. 

This pasta is her retaliation. It's cooked in one pot, with mostly raw ingredients and is perfect on a hot summer night or served at room temperature for a "pasta salad" even the Italians would approve of.

Cook to Cook: While penne works nicely, there is nothing sacred about using that particular shape. 

5 quarts salted water in a 6-quart pot
1 pound small zucchini, about 4 or 5
1 pound imported penne pasta
4 tablespoons good tasting extra-virgin olive oil
1/4 teaspoon hot pepper flakes, and more to taste
4 large garlic cloves, coarse chopped
2 cups grape tomatoes halved, or 2 cups fresh tomatoes, rough chopped
1 to 1-1/2 cups feta cheese, crumbled
1/3 tight-packed cup fresh basil leaves, rough chopped Pan Fried Zucchini Flowers (optional; see recipe below) 

1. Have the salted water boiling.

2. Trim off the ends of the zucchini. Cut the squash into matchsticks about the size of the penne.

3. Drop the pasta into the boiling water. In the last 3 minutes of boiling (check pasta package for timing), drop the zucchini into the pot. Boil, stirring often, until the penne are tender but still have a little bite. Scoop out 1 cup of the pasta water and reserve. Immediately drain the pasta and zucchini in a colander.

4. Return the pasta pot to the heat, turning it down to low. Film the bottom of the pot with the olive oil. Add the hot pepper flakes and garlic, and gently saute just until the garlic is fragrant, 30 seconds to 1 minute.

5. Remove the pot from the heat, add the drained pasta and zucchini, the tomatoes, feta, basil, and as much of the reserved pasta water as necessary to lightly coat the pasta. Gently toss, taste for seasoning, and serve. Top each serving of pasta with the zucchini flowers if you'd like.


LYNNE'S TIPS

Green garlic, the young bulbs that haven't dried yet, are excellent here. Slice them clove, skin and all.

So often to turn a simple vegetable sauti into a pasta sauce, cooks reach for the cream. To me, this is poor cooking, not to mention making a dish heavier and far more caloric than it need be. Cream covers up the delicacy of vegetables and clobbers your taste buds with fat. Instead, use the pasta water, and be generous with herbs and other seasonings. Rewards are lighter eating and much more flavor.

Instead of zucchini, use all small tomatoes here, or par-cooked broccoli. You want male zucchini blossoms (females remain attached to the squash). Other squash flowers can taste bitter. You want them erect, not bruised or wilted. Cook them the day you buy them. And stay with the purist's mantra. Ignore recipes for stuffing, baking or whatever. They are for those with an unending pipeline of blooms. For the Italian summer classic - the "green" sweet tasting zucchini blossom -- you want a fast, crisp pan fry. Do this recipe and Italian grandmothers from Sicily to the Alps will applaud you. 


