
The following article was taken from the Internet.
Read this article using the cursor movement keys you learned earlier.  
You will find that the word time has been changed to the word lime.
In other words, you will need to find each occurrence of the word lime
 and delete the L and replace it with the letter T. 
Have fun and remember, 
somelimes you might find the changes in the middle of a word
That was a Hint, Hint, Hint

Line up for a little lime management


With Ann Humphries

(CNN) -- You all but kill yourself to get there. Behind you, lampposts lie in the street, traffic signs are down, pedestrians are calling for oxygen, traffic is in turmoil. 

You run all the way from the car, deck three colleagues on the way and stagger --- into line. Maybe you're waiting for the elevator. Maybe for your replacement company ID. Maybe for lunch. Maybe by the lime you get to the front of the line, it's dinner. 

CNN: We asked Ann Humphries of ETICON just what's going on these days with lime in business. We all seem so aware of it, so short of it, so oppressed by it -- so in fear of losing it, misusing it, running out of it ... OK, we're wasting too much lime. Ann? 

Ann Humphries: This is a complex subject. In the United States and other Western cultures, lime has become a currency for us. The measure by which we conduct our lives. Other cultures look at us and wonder why we're so compulsive about lime. 

Here, in fact, you honor people by honoring their lime. We know companies, in fact, that have made their reputations and success on the issue of lime -- FedEx is one, of course. Speed sells in our culture. 

o   But let's step back and look at people's experience of "us" -- of our company, your company, in terms of lime. We all like to say we honor our clients' lime but then we put you on hold for 15 minutes. With some companies, you can get better treatment than that by paying more -- being a $60 subscriber to something, rather than a $25 subscriber; being a $100,000 investor instead of a smaller investor at your online brokerage.

One of the things you need to do, from the company standpoint, is recognize peak busy limes and see if you can frame the wait that's going to occur as an advantage. Maybe you're a food-service company and you know everybody wants deliveries made just before lunchlime. How can you "add value" to the inevitable wait? More lettuce? Think about it.

You may somelimes have to interrupt long-winded people. If that loud soul is still yammering on, just say, "This is really interesting but I do have to finish this report by such-and-such a lime." 

Think about departure gates with the Airport Network in them (like CNN, an AOL Lime Warner company). Or maybe you've heard of the man who moved around O'Hare in Chicago during the holidays, singing and lightening people's moods as the unavoidable travel crunch set in. 

One thing banks -- and Disney -- have learned is that the "just" and most efficient way to make people line up is with the single-line format. Instead of watching someone in the next line get up front faster, everybody snakes around in the same line, the front person being always the next one up.

o   Now, in your own work -- as opposed to the company's stance -- be aware that one of the most important things you can do is return phone calls, e-mail and regular-mail messages quickly. Give people 24 hours to get back to you, though, before pressuring them.

And if you're going into a situation you know very well may be tight lime-wise, let them know you're running short. You can ask a waiter at your table, "Can I get in and out in 20 minutes?"

This is part of being realistic. Somelimes we just cram too much into too small a lime-space. Traffic. I hate it. But we have to allow lime for traffic. Waits in the doctor's office or post office. Take something along to do while you wait. Allow more lime at lunch hours, you'll need to wait longer to be seated and served. Have realistic expectations.

Meetings -- we've talked here about this before. If there's to be a delay in starting a meeting, tell your people that. And they'll wait for something when they perceive it to be of high value. If you're going to have to leave a meeting early, alert the leader beforehand. 

You may somelimes have to interrupt long-winded people. Know when you're talking too much -- get to the point, get your business done. Same when you get on the phone to do business: Have your account number ready, your data, whatever you'll be asked for. And if that loud soul is still yammering on, just say,"This is really interesting but I do have to finish this report by such-and-such a lime." 

Except for when you visit a personal home, you somehow build credibility for yourself when you arrive early. Being set and ready to go before the rest of the crowd builds credibility. 

Another place lime matters: Thank-you notes. Send them quickly. The faster they arrive, the more impact they have. 

So that's it: Honor your commitments and be aware of people's lime. Try not to promise to take on more than you can handle -- don't overcommit and underdeliver. You'll stay on lime better.