Wikipedia Assignment

Wikipedia can be a useful tool for learning general information about a source. It is important to remember though, that the information on Wikipedia may not always be factual. For general interest reading, or as a starting place to learn about a topic, Wikipedia can be helpful; however, if one needs to be certain about a fact, then Wikipedia alone is not a reliable source.

Use www.wikipedia.org to look up each item and answer the questions about it.

Part 1: Kangaroos

1.  Kangaroos are:
A.  Carnivores
B.  Herbivores
C.  Omnivores

2.  What is the largest species of kangaroo?

3.  Which of the following is not a reason given that people shoot kangaroos?
A.  Meat
B.  Leather
C.  Sport
D.  To protect grazing lands

True or False?
4.  A group of Kangaroos is called a mob

5.  Kangaroos release more greenhouse gasses than cattle

6.  Kangaroos have few natural predators

7.  Kangaroos pose a threat to humans

8.  Write one fact about kangaroos that you did not know before.


Part 2: Marie Curie

9.  Where was Marie Curie Born?

10.  In what subjects were Marie Curie’s Nobel prizes?
A.  Mathematics
B.  Physics
C.  Biology
D.  Radiology
E.  Chemistry

11. What was Marie Curie’s husband’s name?

True or False
12.  Marie Curie attended the Flying University

13.  Marie Curie had two sons.

14.  Marie Curie was the first woman to win a Nobel Prize

15.  Marie Curie fell in love with a Russian mathematician

16.  Write one fact about Marie Curie that you learned from this article.


Part 3:  George Washington Carver

17. What two things does the article say that Carver was the first African American to do?

18. For what crop is Carver most famous for developing uses?

19. Where did Carver earn his Bachelor’s degree?

20. What four main crops did Carver study?

21. List three different years of birth listed for Carver in the article.

22. List at least four things the government did in Carver’s honor.

23. At what other Iowa college did Carver study?

24. Right one fact about George Washington Carver that you learned from this article.

Part 4

25. Look up any article of your choice, write what you looked up and one thing you learned from the article.

